-Southern Adventist University-

CPTR-318 Grade: -A
Advanced data structures including heaps, hash tables, height-balanced trees, and graphs. Techniques for data abstraction. 
Algorithms that have application in many areas of computer science including searching, sorting, and graph algorithms. Recursive 
algorithms. Analysis of algorithms including time and space complexity analysis. Criteria for choosing data structures and algorithms.

CPTR-328 Grade: A
Principles and issues related to computer networking and data communications. Network topologies, network protocols, network 
models, routing, congestion control, Internet working, security and privacy.

CPTR-332 Grade: A
Basic machine organization and architecture. Processor components, instruction sets, memory types and hierarchy. Introduction 
to data representation, instruction formats, addressing techniques, assembly language, pipelining, and I/O bus architectures. 
Three hours of lecture each week.

CPTR-319 Grade: A
Introduction to database management systems, including data modeling, query languages and processing, database design, data 
integrity and security. Issues related to distributed database systems, object-oriented database systems, and legacy database 
systems are also discussed.

CPTR-215 Grade: A-
Introduction to software design methods. Elementary data structures. Development of reliable, modifiable programs. Three hours 
of lecture and three hours of laboratory work each week.

CPTR-124 Grade: A
Control structures, data types, data representation, compiling, debugging, modularity, and standard programming algorithms are 
introduced, using a higher level language. Three hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory work each week.

CPTR-108 Grade: A-
Introduction to programming and the major areas of computing. An overview of algorithmic problem solving, computer organization, 
operating systems, networking, information systems, and social and ethical issues in computing. Two hours of lecture and three 
hours lab each week.
